Telfuza sedulatilla. We talked about this before. This is a Gallicaea that feeds on oak and you know
you collect oaks in the spring and you get without seeing the larvae and you get adults will come out
of a collection of it. And I reared it from live oak but I think it feeds on other. And as I
mentioned there's some black individuals which are larger that Powell said are a different species
and whether it has a name or not I don't know but I've recorded them separately but I'm not certain
that all of them are a different species or that any of them are a different species. So how you
treat the ones I list as Telfuza black may affect your analyses. But the black ones after the fire
and was it 2016 the one before that? 2015. In 2017 or 2018 the black ones were very common, more common
than I'd seen them before. So maybe that means something maybe not you know because everything
was black and ashy after the fire. But it also could be that it is a different species and it feeds on
something that something that was released from competition after the fire. So the food plant
became more common but I couldn't say. Telenola polygyra is not common at Cold Cannon. It's very common in my
backyard and Wagner says it feeds on leaf litter but I'll take his word for it. Tetrasis servanera. Tetrasis is a
difficult genus. It went on in a different name before and there was a revision by Ferris the same
guy who did the Eupatesia. And it seems to be a pretty good job. Servanera is the one that flies early
in the year and the other two species we have there fly later in the year. It's possible that some are
misidentified. Herceteria is one of the other species and I can't remember what the third one is.
Tenea pelminella is the teneid. These look like the common teneid but so do a lot of other teneas. So this
this is the the closed moth pelminella. That's the one that if you have anything made of wool and
Davis will find it and eat it. Tulipi distincta. This is a weird moth. It's in the
the um the family not it begins with L. Lasiocampid. Lasiocampid. Yeah. So lots of veins on the
forewing and there's a farm that's short wing with a long but has the same abdomen and that one I got it
like one time. And distincta is a name that's been given to a lot of different looking populations. And
whether this is the correct name for it or not but it seems like this is a family that needs to be
revisited and worked on especially now that DNA is possible. Taurapalpis chavalis is a I think it's a
Fisotime pyralum but it might be on a different group of pyroloids and it feeds on Iriogonum.
And you can spot the caterpillars make a lot of webbing when they feed so they're easily detected
and fairly easily to rear. Trichopolia alfkenii we have in Davis and
recent generic change so I think it may be
be under a different name and certainly under a different name in the first. It used to be prot or 30s.
And
Trifosa californiata. There's two species of Trifosa out in Cold Canyon. The other one is called
Haesitata h-a-e s-i-t-a-t-a and that's a much larger moth. So
this species is the one that looks like Trifosa,
like California neoalsis. Oh yeah. But this flies
early in the year and neoalsis flies later in the year and I don't know the food plant but
but they may both feed on the same thing.
I'm not sure.
Eudea profundalis is, I think it has a common name.
I'd say a crambine, and I think it feeds on, are you looking it up?
It might be like the sugar beet moth or false sugar beet moth or something like that.
It doesn't give me a name.
This is one that's often kicked up during the day.
I don't know whether these collection records are indicative of its abundance.
I don't know, you know, because I can kick it up during the day
and never see it at light for long periods of time.
It looks a little bit like a kyra, except longer palpy,
but pyra is, you know, if you look at them just casually, they're difficult to tell apart.
And there are other species of Eudea that are similar to this.
And there is a paper on Eudea that makes it much easier to identify than many of the others.
Okay. Blastobases.
In the beginning, I tried to sort them out by general appearance,
and I called them species 1, 2, 3, and 4, and then finally I just threw up my hands.
So that's why there's no early records.
I called them 1, 2, or 3, or 4.
And then later, after the fire, I decided to try to sort them again.
But all of the blastobases other than glandulae should be lumped together as blastobases.
Spuh, or spuh, but.
Species are species.
Viridiceptus marinae, this used to be in Eligia.
And it turned out, it turns out that all of our Eligia are not Eligia.
And this is one of the few species which has been assigned to a genus.
And it seems to have some relationship to Aseptus, which we covered earlier.
And it seemed to have declined for a while and then reappeared.
But I think it's more common down on the lower trail.
And it may be that the decline was due to my moving up to the upper trail later.
There are, you know, another species that was more common that we covered last week
on that lower trail was the Hesperumia sulforaria.
So I don't see it as much on the upper trail.
Vichula seratilinella.
This used to be a subspecies of Edmunds eye.
And whether this is a valid species or not, I don't know if the DNA evidence supports it.
The only difference between it and Edmunds eye is this one has the grayness of the hind wing, I think.
But it's kind of a difficult physitine to recognize, whether they're all recorded or not.
I think this one gets into honeybee eyes, among other things.
But it's known to be a pest of dried fruits and a number of other things.
So caterpillars apparently have a sweet tooth.
Walshia mysticolorella is a Cosmopter rigid.
It's the larvae feed internally.
And I know it from feeding in stems of woody lupins.
But I think it feeds in some other plants as well.
Reasonably common, reasonably easy to identify.
I got once in Davis, Xenolechia stasper.
This is a manuscript name that Hopper used for one of his oak feeding species.
We're getting to the end here.
Hooray.
And I quit using this name.
So they didn't abruptly disappear.
I just quit using it.
And I think it would be best to lump stasper and quercifaga as together.
And how many species there are then under that name, I couldn't say.
But I didn't have a good grasp of what stasper and quercifaga looked like.
And I thought that stasper were the darker looking moths.
But it's so variable that I don't know that you can tell them apart from one another.
And I don't know if Hopper's work.
It probably has genitalia or illustrated or something.
But I haven't seen it.
Okay.
Zespia infomatis.
There's one called finitimus, which was described by LaFontaine.
And then he also said there's hybrids.
And I sorted them out on the basis of what I thought they were.
But now that I've seen pictures on the internet, I'm not sure that the ones I identified as hybrids are different than...
I don't know that they are the hybrids.
And I don't know that what I've called finitimus or whatever the anagram of infomatis is are that species.
So those Zespia identifications are questionable.
And whether they really are different species or not remains to be seen.
LaFontaine, in his paper, said that the hybrids are sterile.
So the females were never mated there.
So that would suggest that they are good species.
But I don't know if there's any DNA work or not.
As I said, LaFontaine's a splitter.
Ipsilofa cervella looks like Ipsilofa, the other species of Ipsilofa.
This one feeds on oak.
They spin down.
They have caterpillars that wiggle frantically when disturbed.
And they make a very characteristic cocoon.
It's kind of like a...
It looks like a taco, sort of.
It's attenuated on each end.
Very, very common.
But because they spin down from the oaks, which they feed on, you often see the caterpillars on different plants, which they aren't really feeding on.
They just happen to land there.
So there could be erroneous host plant records for this species when it was really just a pre-pupil larvae spinning down.
So...
Zelleria heimbackeye, I think, is one that feeds on conifers.
So the conifer at Cold Canyon is Sabiniana, Pinus Sabiniana.
Zelleria semitincta.
This feeds on Ash phraxonus.
And there's two ash species at Cold Canyon.
And for a long time, we couldn't identify this.
But it turned out that it appears to be the same species that feeds on what they call, I think, chaparral olive or something like that.
which so it's in the Central Valley and then into Arizona and I think this
species was described from Arizona or somewhere but that seems to be all the
same species but for the longest time we thought this was a new species but and
the one enormous ash tree which I think was organ ash vanished I can't find it
anymore and I don't know whether it actually just whether I just can't find
it or whether disappeared on a fire or what but you know Wagner was interested
in ash because of emerald ash borer and he thinks that species are going to go
extinct because of that Xenophleps ligno colorilla is a fairly easy to
identify moth and I think we get it from late fall to through spring there
might even be other generations I haven't looked at that have to look at the
collection records but most records I think are from fall and then again in
spring and I think it's just one generation that over winners but I'm not
certain about that and it's ten o'clock do you finish that was the last thanks John
that's awesome